---
title: The simple software structure
description: How and why I structure the code in my applications to keep them simple
---

## Background
Recently at my work at [MOBIKO](https://mobiko.net) we had discussion about software architecture. We decided to have everyone write down what they value and want from a software project structure. How they would write software in an ideal world or how they would do it if they were to write a project by themselves.
As I wanted to write my thoughts on this down for a while, I decided to lay it all down in this post.

## Everything starts simple
I prefer to call my approach a structure and not an architecture because that is simpler. It can grow into an architecture and I have developed this structure with that in mind but it has to start simple so at first and foremost it is a structure.
I don't engineer applications before I write code. 
## Rapid prototyping
I like to explore a problem space by writing a simple solution for it. In my experience I have not seen a lot of benefit from overly planning an application before starting with the implementation. Most plans are thrown over as soon as the rubber hits the road and imaginary plans and concepts face the reality of framework and hardware constraints. Our ideas for how to solve problems need to adjust to the realities of the things we built on and what our systems interact with. Be it other systems or humans. And the reality is there is a lot we can't forsee and a lot we forget ([I make mistakes](./#mistakes)). Often times the devil is in the details and the devil will come for your meticulously laid out planning table and flip it over. The alternative is working against reality. Shoehorning a solution onto a problem and creating a fragile system with an extra serving of mental overhead and maintenance.
I work best by implementing a solution and evolving the plan as I go. This leads to faster prototypes that enable me to gather feedback quicker and make adjustments. As the computer does exactly what you told it to with code, you will encounter gaps in your knowledge about the problem space. Depending on the severity and whether they touch business or technical requirements they are either left to your own discretion or you need to gather feedback from your stakeholders. If you follow plans while developing a better understanding of your problem space, then you also need to update your plans. This way you end up with the extra burden of maintaining two specifications of your solution. The code and the plan. Code is just a specification of your solution for a problem that a computer can understand and (more or less) determinsticly execute. Don't get me wrong, plans can be useful. But their main purpose is communication like explaining concepts and ways of thinking to others. Those plans are often to communicate to people who don't understand code and should often be on a higher level leaving out many details that are not relevant for them but that are covered in the code. But these still require maintenance and often times get abandoned when they are not closely tied to code or generated by code. Code should be the primary definition from which everything else is derived.

## Write it to delete it

<h2 id="mistakes">Embrace your mistakes</h2>
How to deal with them, embrace them. Fail fast. The silent part of move fast and break things.
We try to avoid mistakes as much as we can. And we should continue that and not release negligent halphazardly unfinished software.
## Embrace diversity


## No util/shared/common
These are in my opinion catch all categories when developers can't come up with a better name. They are a drawer you put junk into and when it is out of sight it's out of mind.

## Rust taught me
### Error clippy lint
